Outputs
=======


mim-tRNAseq automatically generates many data and figure output files, some are dependent on paramter options specified when running mim-tRNAseq.
The output are split into various subdirectories described below:

**cov**

Outputs for coverage analysis.

*`sampleData\*.txt`: Sample data information with library size for coverage normalization.
*`coverage_bygene.txt`: Coverage and normalized coverage per tRNA/cluster per 4% bin by gene length.
*`coverage_byaa.txt`: Coverage and normalized coverage summed for isoacceptors per 4% bin by gene length.
*`coverage_bycluster_norm.pdf`: Plot of normalized coverage along gene length for each tRNA/clustrer.
*`coverage_byaa_line.pdf`: Coverage per amino acid group in line graph.
*`coverage_byaa_norm.pdf`: Normalized coverage per amino acid and aligment file.
*`coverage_byaa_norm_scaled.pdf`: Normalized coverage scaled realtive to second last bin (94%) for comparability between samples.

**align**

Read alignment outputs.

*`mapping_stats.txt`: Alignment statistics from GSNAP alignment. Contains "NEW ALIGNMENT" when --remap is enabled.
*`align.log`: Log file from GSNAP alignment.
*`\*mult.bam`: bam file of multi-mapping read alignments per sample.
*`\*uniq.bam`: bam file of uniquely mapping read alignments per sample.
*`\*nomapping.bam`: bam file of unmapped reads per sample.
*`Primary_alignstats.pdf`: Plot of alignment stats from first alignment round.
*`Remap_alignstats.pdf`: Plot of alignment stats from read realignment if enabled.

**counts**

Read count outputs.

*`counts.txt`: `featureCounts` generated counts per tRNA/cluster.
*`featureCounts.log`: Log file from `featureCounts` run.
*`counts.txt.summary`: Reap assignment statistics from featureCounts run.
*`Anticodon_counts.txt`: Read counts summed by tRNAs sharing anticodons.
*`Isodecoder_counts.txt`: Deconvoluted isodecoder counts calculated from mismatch proportions. See methods in Behrens et al., 2020. Only produced if cluster-id < 1.


**indices**

Indices required for GSNAP alignment.

* `tRNAgenome\` contains the index of mature, processed tRNA transcripts.
* `snp_index\` contains the SNP index generated from modified positions, needed by GSNAP for SNP-tolerant alignment. Only generated if --snp-tolerance is enabled.
* `\*.log`: files contain log info from index generation.

**annotation**

Various files describing the tRNA trasncriptome of the genome of interest.

* `\*tRNATranscripts.fa`: processed, intron spliced, 3'-CCA appeneded, and His 5'-G appended tRNA trancript sequences in fasta format.
* `\*modificationSNPs.txt`: SNP index information for each tRNA after matching to Modomics entries for species of interest.
* `\*isoacceptorInfo.txt`: Information on isoacceptor groups and their size in genome of interest.
* `\*maturetRNA.bed': bed6 file for mature tRNA transcripts - used for coverage calculations.
* `\*clusterTranscripts_align.stk`: Stockholm align file generated by INFERNAL cmalign for tRNA sequence and structural alignments. Used for metagene coverage plots.
* `cm.log`: log file for INFERNAL cmalign algorithm

	Parameter-dependent outputs:

	* `\*clusterTranscripts.fa`: Cluster parent transcript sequence if clustering is enabled.
	* `\*isodecoderInfo.txt`: Isodecoder representative gene with size of isodecoder group (i.e. number of identitical tRNA sequences). Onlu for cluster-id < 1
	* `\*clusters.bed`: bed6 file for cluster parents. Only if clustering is enabled.
	* `\*clusterInfo.txt`: Cluster parent-child relationship for every tRNA gene, with unique cluster number and size. Only if clustering is enabled.

